
page 5 of chapter-1
AGILE

Your company is going Agile. Now everyone talks about frequent and iterative deployments. If you’re a tester or QA person, that can scare you about what your world will look like. Will you be expected to test a codebase that changes daily with no breaks or time to breathe? Alternatively, you’ve heard that some teams do away with QA and testers once they go agile. How will you survive? What is QA’s role in agile?

Fear not, we still need QA in our new agile world. However, instead of the old paradigm, where your goal involves finding defects at the end of a lengthy waterfall project, your new goals include continuously preventing defects and helping ship products faster. And with this guiding principle, you’ll be on your way to creating a robust and healthy QA process.

In this post, we’re going to take a look at what going agile means from a QA perspective and how you can change to thrive in this environment.

Where’s the QA Agile Manifesto?
The Agile Manifesto kicked off the agile movement. But it didn’t seem to include our QA team. Let’s review the values.

Working software over comprehensive documentation
Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
Responding to change over following a plan
Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
How do these values fit with QA?

When reviewing the values and principles of agile, we don’t see testing addressed as clearly as we’d like. In fact, we’re not even sure if traditional QA has a place. So let’s read between the lines and picture what this means for us.

Working Software Over Comprehensive Documentation
For the first value, we learn that working software is prioritized over comprehensive documentation.

First, your goal shouldn’t be to write extensive test documentation or test cases. Writing and executing manual tests consumes a lot of time and results in errors. We’re humans, not machines!

If your goal includes working software, look for ways of rethinking your approach. This is your opportunity to look into test automation tools that will make your testing more efficient, repeatable, and easier to track.